  Currently polishing up my college final year project and getting ready to start writing my thesis. I enjoyed building  [FARE](/projects/fare) - *an app for attaining financial independence*, but the whole thing dragged out for bit too long. After five long months, it's time to accept the bugs, package it up, put a nice bow on it and move onto the next thing.

Parallel to that, I spent last three months madly in love with web development, building and learning like never before. It all happened all of the sudden, but at just the right time. All throughout summer I was in a bit of a rut, desperately searching for something to do with my free time after work. One day, browsing GitHub, as one does, I came across a colleague of mine building something cool, and I felt a strong urge to do something of my own. Newfound inspiration, coupled with my competitiveness, caused me to jump straight into building out my portfolio page. I bought my first ever domain (the most important part), and then promptly spent entire days iterating over all kind of designs, getting too stuck on each. That whole chaotic design process may just be my favorite part of building something new. All that took my focus off of the college project for bit too long though, so had to shift my focus back to that.

Took two weeks vacation off work, spent it all on coding. Used the momentum to build out most of Fare, with a new small side project every few days (I just couldn't help myself). Picked up Svelte along the way. All that time, my motivation and passion was fueled by the [SyntaxFM](https://syntax.fm/) podcast, which I discovered around that time. Finally found my people.

<p>
  Nowadays I spend my days brainstorming ideas, and then picking one and actually doing it. Spent last few weeks building out vscode extensions. Picked up <NuxtLink to="https://deno.land/" external target="_blank">
    {{ 'Deno'.trim() }}
  </NuxtLink> along the way. Released <NuxtLink to="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=matijao.modern-js-snippets" external target="_blank">
    {{ 'Modern JavaScript Snippets'.trim() }}
  </NuxtLink>, built on a great base off of which I was able to quickly spin up my next extension, <NuxtLink to="https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=matijao.vue-nuxt-snippets" external target="_blank">
    {{ 'Vue Ecosystem Snippets'.trim() }}
  </NuxtLink>. Used all the knowledge from the previous one to do this one right. Finally learned how releases work. Just today, Johnson Chu from Volar  <NuxtLink to="https://twitter.com/matijao_/status/1610200146385534977" external target="_blank">
    {{ 'recommended my extension on Twitter'.trim() }}
  </NuxtLink>, before I even tweeted about it myself. Feels like I'm on the right track.
</p>

<p>
  I'm finally getting more and more comfortable contributing to open source, albeit nothing too serious just yet. Got access to <NuxtLink to="https://twitter.com/elk_zone" external target="_blank">
    {{ 'Elk'.trim() }}
  </NuxtLink> (Mastodon client built on Nuxt 3 by some of the Vue & Nuxt core team members) private repo. This may be the thing I was looking for. Hope to find a way to contribute in a meaningful way. Figuring out how the hell to create a Mastodon account is a task in itself.
</p>

<p>
  As for the thesis, I have just over a month left. I keep telling myself, just finish that, and then you're free to do any project you want. Will I make it? Shall see. Tick, tock.
</p>
